---
title: EuroTrip Summer 2023
date: 2024-02-15 04:33:00 +0000
catergories: []
tags: []
---

## **Prologue**

In this post, I will be going through my week long travel vacation through central Europe. This took place after my summer abroad stint in Rome in the summer of 2023. In total I spent 8 days visiting Vienna, Prague, and Berlin. This is a place for me to recount my trip from my perspective today. 

## **Vienna**
<sup>June 22, 2023<sup>

To get to Vienna from Rome, it is a 12-hour train ride. My travel companion, Jackson, and I elected to take a sleeper train to maximize the daytime we had in Vienna. 

From Rome, we had about an hour's layover in Bologna to catch the long train. During this short break, I helped a confused woman buy a ticket. The station was surprisingly busy at 11:30 p.m. As our departure time was nearing, we could not find the train marked "Wien". It was not there! After asking around, we eventually determined that the train listed under a closer destination with half the train continuing to Vienna. We were only about 50% sure this was correct. There was an American family in the same boat being confused with German infrastructure. 

Our sleeper cart consisted of six firm beds, three stacked on each side. Two were occupied by a German couple with the top bunk occupied by Jackson and I. It was a bumpy ride, so I popped some melatonin hoping to sleep throughout the night. It was a better night of sleep than I expected given my sleeping arrangments. I slept fully clothed, with shoes on, and with no pillow or blanket. Our cabin awoke to an extremely nice and bald Wiener who was to take our breakfast order. I chose to have the complimentary coffee and a bread roll with jam. This meal was surprisingly appetizing. Twelve short hours later, we arrived in Wien.

### Day 1 

It is at this point in writing that I have to consult pictures to keep the timeline straight. After checking into our hostel, we spent the day walking around and deciding what our plan of action should be. We got a student discount into the House of Music museum. It was an interactive experience that gave me flashbacks to elementary school fieldtrips. I can only imagine this is Vienna's equivilent of Kansas City's science city. 

The game plan for night one was to go see a rendition of Vilvaldi's Four Seasons inside Karlskirche (listed as one of Vienna's [most beautiful churches](https://travelnotesandbeyond.com/churches-in-vienna/)). After, we would head east onto an island in the river to experience [Donauinselfest Festival](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donauinselfest#:~:text=The%20Donauinselfest%20(German%20for%20%22Danube,million%20visitors%20over%203%20days!)) ,which is the biggest open air festival in the world.

The Four Season's concert was beautiful, especially given the setting. My mind was a little pre occupied hoping I would be able to catch Bonnie Tyler's Total Eclipse of the Heart (I didn't). At nightfall, we were on our way to the Danube River in which we could not figure out how to use public transport to get onto the island. We could see the shining lights from the multiple stages and decided to walk across a huge pedestrian bridge to get on the island. This dropped us off right next to the main stage where we could hear them rocking. This act was not something I ever expected to hear. The best way to describe The BossHoss is a country, German-Mexican, rock fusion band. Maybe not sounding the best on stage, but the crowd (me included) were definitely into their performance. The peak of the show had to have been when they played the familiar Jolene in their German accent. 

Back at the hostel, we socialized a little bit with some of the residents. A Canadian master's student releasing some stress froma big speech she was about to give in Berlin and what she claimed she was not ready for, a French student named Leslie who had the strongest accent I have ever heard and figuring out her name was as far as I got, and a Spanish student all getting their travels in. 

I tuned in early for bed in our room of 6 people.
### Day 2
I woke up on day 2 to the sound of some of my roomates rustling. The man who slept below me was a middle aged Asian-Austrialian who was doing a 6 month trip across Europe. I guess in his scenario he can only get over to this side of the world a couple times in his lifetime. Maybe one day that will be me traveling for fun. There were only 2 things I really wanted to get out of the city of Vienna. 1. Go to Prater park's famous ferris wheel as it is an iconic scene in one of my favorite movies, Before Sunrise. 2. Try a Wienerschnitzel and Vienna's famous capuccinos. Before I got to that, we decided to spend the day at the Schönbrunn Palace. Priced for admission into the palace were ridiculous, so we just walked around the outskirks and the gardens. The palace was pretty, but in my eyes it fell short of the entirety of Versailles in France. 

The details of the remainder of the day eludes me. In short, either the previous day or on this day we went to the Art History Museum. This museum had some interesting pieces, but honestly is fairly forgettable in my recollection. Similiar to the Schönbrunn Palace, it feels like The Louvre's younger sister. Eventually we made way to Prater Park. I was able to get an amazing view of Vienna and ride the ferris wheel where Jesse and Celine share their first kiss. I wish my city had a Prater Park type amusement park where I could have huhg out in high school. 

After dark on our walk back, we stopped by the front of the Hofburg, eluminated by the warm lights around it. It was a sturcture that was hard to miss. Bonus, this was a key place and in the front of my mind at the time because we were learning all about the Habsburg empire during my Nineteenth Century Euriose class I was taking in Rome.

### Day 3

Late morning train on Day 3 to Prague was the only deadline we had to hit. Next to the train station we stopped at a Aida, a chain cake shop. The whole design was pink. the employees clothes, tables, and outside was all pink. 

### Review

Vienna is an extremly clean city. It has a Paris vibe to it, but much cleaner and a little less extravageant. I did not get enough time to properly explore the culture and history of the city. There is lots to do, but it is not super condensed. The town square near Albertina Platz was a little crowded, but the rest of the city was tranquil. 

## **Prague**

### Day 3






